Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Amanonce said, "When you make
a friend, you take on a responsibility."
That describes my friend,
Danny Barrett.
When he invited me to lunch
I should have known
there'd be strings attached.
Excuse me, guys.
Sorry. Sure. Go ahead.
MacGyver, you're just in time.
For what? You said lunch.
Later, okay? You know
what's going on in here?
A jewellery safe cracked like an egg.
Another few million in stones
are gone, goodbye, you know?
Same MO as heists in Dallas,
New Orleans, Chicago.
Who's getting hit in the pocket book?
My client, Pacific Metropolitan.
But I know who's pulling the heists.
I've been tracing this guy
halfway across the country.
He leaves town after.
No strain, no pain.
Nobody hot on his tail,
and know why?
Because the thief
is a diplomat. Yeah.
The Ganubian cultural attaché.
I'll bet a Porsche
the diamonds are in the consulate.
- Danny!
- What?
You're an insurance investigator.
This is heavy.
Have you talked to the police?
Sure, and wave bye
to my Porsche.
Which I'll buy with the bonus I get
when I get proof.
- Which is why I asked you here.
- How'd I get so lucky?
You taught me everything I know
about computer hacking.
What's computer hacking
got to do with diamonds?
I figured the consulate computer
had files on this cultural attaché.
I figured out a way into it.
I don't think that's a good idea.
It's kinda dumb.
No, it was brilliant.
When I accessed the menu
and punched up the attaché's name,
the thing lit up.
Diamonds, dates of shipments.
Wait a minute.
Some thief put all that information
into a computer?
Arrogance. To him it was just
good record keeping, you know?
Who's gonna touch him?
He's a diplomat.
All right, look. What exactly
was in the computer?
I got a quick look,
then I got shut out.
That's an intercept program.
They're probably on you.
No way. I need your help to hack
my way back into the computer.
My computer is set up
to receive the information.
I have the code word that gets me
into his program: blue ice.
Danny!
No!
Blue ice.
Our senior year, class voted
Danny the most reckless...
...and the most irresponsible,
but everybody loved him.
I'm gonna nail them, Pete.
The diamond thief did this.
You know it, I know it,
and I'm gonna nail him.
MacGyver, wait a minute.
Walk away from this
for a couple of days.
Let the police handle it.
That truck didn't have
license plates on it.
The police are calling it
a hit and run.
Help me on this, Pete.
Well, I can't say no, can I?
Where do we start?
The name of the Ganubian
cultural attaché.
His name is Amir Sumal.
He has quite a reputation
for his brutal way of doing things,
both in politics and his personal life.
A dangerous man.
He's hosting a reception
for the city's wealthiest art patrons,
but access is a tough nut to crack.
Nobody gets in without an invitation.
Step inside. Invitation, please.
Step inside.
Oh, my darling!
I haven't seen you since Cannes,
or Mallorca?
Oh, yes, I think it was Mallorca.
How silly of me.
You will save me a dance,
won't you?
Pete had learned that Sumal's office
was located upstairs.
The computer had to be there.
Sumal was at the party, so what
I needed was a way upstairs.
- Amir Sumal!
- Excuse me.
What a pleasure, I've been
looking forward to meeting you.
Thank you for coming.
I meant to ask you.
Your magnificent necklace,
is it an heirloom?
I'm sorry, staff only.
Easy, easy. Take it easy,
I want to make a deal with you.
If you don't scream,
I don't scream.
How about that? Okay?
Can I trust you?
All right, I want you to turn around,
very, very slowly.
All right! Who are you?
It'll come to me.
- What have you got in your bag?
- Just this.
Now, who are you?
Do we really need the gun?
Just answer the question.
I'm impatient.
All right. You want the truth?
I'm somebody who shouldn't be here.
Like you, I bet.
What are you doing here?
Oh. Hello.
Obviously we were looking
for a little privacy.
Yes. My fiancée here,
she's a little old-fashioned
about public displays of affection.
Aren't you, dear?
Move from behind the desk.
And lift your hands in the air.
This is embarrassing.
Croce here. I need some
backup in the library.
Oh, now, really. Please.
Mr Sumal would be outraged
to see how you were treating guests.
- Move!
- Wait.
Look, we're not really guests.
We're actually working undercover.
In fact, her gun is right over there.
- Where'd you learn that?
- Sunday school.
Oh.
- What are you doing?
- Finishing up what I started to do.
- Croce?
- Outside.
Croce, are you in there?
If you think you can rappel
in that outfit.
What's she doing?
That chick is a real banana boat.
Pulls up in a Ferrari,
leaves in a wagon?
I hate when she does that.
It's all right, we made a trade.
I'll take care of it.
Well, isn't this interesting how we run
into each other twice in one day.
Let me guess, you're
an insurance investigator.
What else?
Danny sure could pick 'em.
I'll take that as a compliment.
I thought you might have
modem'd that.
Yeah, but it's all scrambled.
I know this is a
multi-syllabic binary code,
and that the Ganubians
use it all the time.
Fact is, I have a decoding
programmer disk in my car.
Why don't you get it, and we can
unscramble this mess together.
I believe you have my keys.
Allow me.
Be right back.
Put your hands on the car.
- Let's go, you know the routine.
- What's going on?
You're under arrest
for grand theft auto.
Grand theft? Hold it.
Let me explain this.
Keep your hands on the car
and do what you're told.
I've got identification.
This is not a stolen car.
Oh, this is your car?
- Well, no, not exactly.
- Well, no.
Save it, lowlife.
The owner called it in,
described you to a tee.
- The owner?
- That's what I said.
So, would you like to try a new story?
I love a good story.
You have the right to remain silent.
If you give up the right,
anything you say
can and will be used
against you in a court of law.
You have the right to speak
with an attorney...
Wow.
Diamond grades.
Yes, yes, yes.
So you're MacGyver?
Yeah. How'd you know?
Oh, the police told me.
I wanna compliment you
on that little story you told
about the decoder disk.
Nice touch. Good moves.
You're not still mad about the car?
Oh, I don't know.
I had to drag one of my best friends
downtown to bail me out
and then had to explain
the whole thing.
Of course I'm ticked.
Look, we kept bumping
into each other,
and, well, sicing the cops on you
was the fastest thing I could
think of to get you off my tail.
I'm sorry about the car.
I came here to apologize.
You came here because
you can't break the code.
You did?
Maybe.
You're gonna have to come up
with more than a lame apology.
Danny was my brother.
You're the one that grew up
with his father...
...in Georgetown.
Raised there, married there,
divorced there.
That was another lifetime ago.
Why didn't you just
say something to me?
I had no idea who you were,
I thought you were another one
of Danny's flaky friends.
Look, I came here to find out
who killed him.
And I figured I was better off
working solo.
- You a cop?
- No.
But I... I've had
that kind of training.
Danny did mention that his sister
had gone to a law school,
and worked for a Senate subcommittee
in Washington. Why'd you leave?
Well, my heart wasn't in it anymore.
So I figured I'd come back here
and see Danny.
He was all I had.
I tried to tell him he was in
way over his head.
But he had his heart set
on breaking this case.
He wanted to be...
...important.
Danny was important.
Look...
I know some things,
you know some things.
What do you say
we put them together
and show Mr Sumal
he can't get away with murder?
I think I'd like that.
I think I'd like it a lot.
I don't know what you mean.
This is not proof. What is this?
It's a list of the diamonds Sumal stole.
Valuations, descriptions...
They're in that consulate.
They haven't been shipped yet.
They're sitting there,
ten million dollars worth.
We can't get a search warrant,
it's foreign soil.
Let's at least agree
on our dilemma, all right?
Amir Sumal could commit murder.
He could kill a nun
in Central Park at high noon,
and we couldn't touch him.
That's what diplomatic immunity means.
The man is subject to the laws
of his own land, not ours.
Most we could do is ship him home.
But, in order to do that,
we would have to catch this man
with the stolen diamonds,
right in the palm of his hand.
- Then let's do it.
- But how?
Well, first we're gonna need
some diamonds for him to steal.
Well, I have a diamond stick pin
I inherited. Probably worth $600.
Where are we going to get diamonds
that he would want to steal?
How about the code room
at the consulate?
You wanna steal the diamonds
Sumal has stolen
- so that he can steal them back?
- Right.
From what we've been dug up,
this Sumal is an extremely arrogant guy.
- He'd be a cinch to set up.
- It could work.
He loves women,
playing squash, and diamonds.
Pick the order, those are his passions.
Great, but how are those passions
going to get us into a secure
code room in a foreign consulate?
Wait a minute.
Diamonds, women, squash.
Squash.
He's got to carry the key
with him, right?
So if I could get into his locker
at the Racquet Club...
I could make a mould,
to make a copy of our own key.
Of course we're gonna need
some bait.
What kind of bait?
A diamond.
A very big diamond.
I'll be happy to double this
if you'd tell Mr Sumal
he's at my regular table,
and please ask him to move.
Excuse me, sir, but I'm afraid
you are sitting at a reserved table.
- This is the lady's regular table.
- I beg your pardon?
I'm sorry to trouble you to move.
I will have a table cleared and set up
for you in a moment, Mr Sumal.
My usual. Thank you.
I hope you don't think I'm being rude.
No. Just territorial.
Oh, this is ridiculous.
Won't you please join me?
Come, sit down.
Amir Sumal.
Nicole. Nicole de Merlier.
De Merlier? But of course.
- I know the name.
- Oh?
Everyone knows of
the Merlier diamonds.
The famous Twelve Sisters.
- It's a shame we must part with them.
- You're selling The Sisters?
- Why?
- Oh, the usual. Money.
My brother has inherited
the sins of our late father:
expensive tastes
for wine and women.
Your brother is
a well-known sportsman.
Yes, actually, when he's not busy
entertaining. He lives for squash.
Ridiculous game, though,
chasing that silly ball.
It happens to be my favourite sport.
- Oh, no, not really?
- Yes.
I suppose I'm prejudiced.
I'd like to change your mind.
This afternoon.
I'm sorry. I have an appointment.
Perhaps we can organize this
another time?
I have this wonderful idea.
I will accompany you
to your appointment,
and then we'll lunch at my club.
I'd like that.
- And where is your appointment?
- The Diamond Exchange.
Yes? Right.
That's them. Places.
Come on, move it. Let's go.
Mr Blane, please forgive
my being late.
- No problem.
- Well, it's about time.
Let's not make this more difficult.
Mr Blane, may I please introduce you
to a friend of mine, Amir Sumal.
How do you do?
My brother Claude.
The rogue of the family.
- I'm here, aren't I? How you doing?
- Hello.
I was telling your brother
we've spoken
to our best contacts
about your collection,
including the Vanderzeals,
and there is considerable interest.
So, may I see the stone?
Oh, yes, of course.
Oh, wonderful.
Such fire.
No noticeable flaws
and approximately 1 0.3 karats.
The ninth sister of 1 2.
We'll deposit this in the vault,
and we'll wire a check to your bank.
This is unbreakable glass,
of course.
It means that our secure
viewing room and the vault
are visible at all times.
Simpson?
Our ultimate security precaution.
They're gorgeous.
May I take a closer look?
Well, that's a little bit
unusual, but...
...since it's you,
Miss de Merlier, please.
Thank you.
This shipment is going to Tiffany's.
And these are consigned
to the Winwood Gallery.
We got a good price, Nikki.
Have my share transferred
to the Melbourne account.
- I'll be at a tournament there.
- Squash?
It's his obsession.
Distraction, my dear.
Merely a distraction.
Do you play, Mr Sumal?
In fact, I just invited your sister
to lunch at my club.
Oh, how nice. How about
if I invite myself along?
Maybe have a couple of games
before lunch.
- Claude!
- I'll even buy, now that we have cash.
Amir, do you mind?
Delighted, my dear. Shall we?
Shall we proceed to the game?
May I have a brief word with
my brother before you destroy him?
Family matters.
I'll see you there.
- Give me the key.
- Didn't get it.
- What do you mean?
- What do I mean? I didn't get it.
- I thought you were good.
- So did I.
Now what do we do?
- Locker number 1 2.
- What's that mean?
It means, I play squash,
and you play Find the Key.
Not me,
it's the men's locker room.
MacGyver.
Whatever happened to a good
old-fashioned bar of soap?
- Do you mind if I borrow the soap?
- Oh. Not at all.
Point, game and match.
I got to admit, you sure know
how to make a good impression.
This key's gonna work out fine.
You did a fair job.
I got myself invited to
the Ambassador's Reception.
Now I would hardly rate that
a "fair job".
Okay. Fair plus.
So, my plan?
Actually, I've got a better idea.
Your Rolls-Royce,
Amir's dumbwaiter.
Nicole de Merlier.
Your Excellency, I felt a small
reception would be appropriate.
I can endure it, Amir,
but in future, please,
let us tend to business.
Amir, darling.
Oh, Miss de Merlier,
I'd like you to meet
Ambassador Vulnay.
- Miss Nicole de Merlier.
- An honour, sir.
This is wonderful!
The impressionists have such style.
And this Renoir...
Nicole, you amaze me.
I cherish beautiful things.
Especially valuable ones.
Like this Degas.
Or a thoughtful man who sends his
security people to see I arrive safely.
Security?
I saw him keep an eye on you, or us,
at the café, then at
the Diamond Exchange.
He escorted me to your front gate.
Security?
Call up the gate camera
on the gallery monitor.
I feel very safe with you.
Of course you are, my dear.
Shall we rejoin the party?
A Sym-Com
variable combination lock.
The kind that requires each button
to be punched only once.
No key was gonna open that.
But I had an idea.
If they used all six buttons,
the chances of guessing the right
combination was about 720 to one.
Narrowing down the odds
was a simple matter
of bringing fingerprints
to the surface.
Three buttons had fingerprints.
That got the odds down
to one in six.
Then it was a matter of running
through the six combinations
until I got the right one.
Math and science do prove useful.
Out!
Fortunately, the ambassador
leaves tonight.
So we will have tomorrow to ourselves.
Well, I think that sounds positively...
...lovely. Amir, darling,
come here. Goodbye.
And thank you for a perfectly
splendid afternoon.
Amir, you're wicked.
Now, now, now, you don't want
to keep the ambassador waiting.
Somehow I just know we're going
to become much closer.
In case you didn't know,
my country executes spies,
Mr Keach, Charles Keach!
I'm not a spy,
I'm a private investigator.
I didn't mean any offence
to you or your country.
But I do take offence.
First you invade my personal life,
and you seem to have a fascination
for my friend Miss de Merlier.
First off, her name isn't de Merlier.
It's Carpenter.
Secondly, I'd hide
the family silver if I were you.
- What?
- Your lady friend's a high-class thief.
In the past month
she's pulled off two jobs.
Cash and stones worth
about three mil.
It's my guess you're being
set up for a hit.
I don't believe this!
She greased the maitre d' at the cafe.
Oh, that's classic!
Got under your skin to get herself
inside the consulate.
What did she do while here?
Well, we talked, and we
looked at the art collection.
She's an expert
on anything worth money.
Art, jewellery, rare coins.
The lady's got a lot of interests.
You are in greater peril
than you think.
- One of the Degas is missing.
- Bingo!
Okay. All the gear's in the van.
Pete's on his way to the consulate.
There's just one question.
Will it work?
Are you having a problem
with my plan?
Just one, it's not mine.
So, what's the problem.
- Where is it?
- My purse.
Aw, Nikki, doggone it,
you just couldn't leave it alone.
Move.
I had a very interesting discussion
with a Mr Charles Keach.
Knows you remarkably well.
And suspects that you're here
planning something illegal.
And I can see clearly that you
plan to rob the Blane diamonds.
Now you used the diamonds
you sold them to gain entrance.
- But how did you take these photos?
- My purse doubles as a camera.
I would like to thank you for providing
me with such an extensive plan.
Wait a minute!
Know how to pick a variable
induction electronic lock?
Know the guard schedule?
The alarm system? Huh?
It may take me time
to study your plan,
but I'm in no hurry.
Blane diamonds are.
Take off tomorrow.
Early.
You're implying I couldn't manage
this venture without you.
You catch on real quick.
- Partners.
Help me. Please.
Help me.
Easy, lady. I've got you.
Oh, God.
- Call the police.
- Just hold on. Hold on.
Wait!
Let's do it.
A king's ransom.
I commend you both.
You're everything Mr Keach
said you were.
I'd like to thank you for making this
a very profitable partnership.
Short-lived as it was.
I'll take that.
Now move over there.
- What are you doing?
- Taking my half and yours.
You would do the same.
Turn around and face the wall.
I could shoot you,
but that would be so vulgar.
It's so much more poetic to execute you
in your own gas chamber.
Cover your nose and mouth.
How is it that we knew
he'd do something like that?
Human nature.
Let's go.
To the consulate.
Well done, Fred.
Okay, Charlie,
let's hit the consulate.
Your Excellency? Mr Blane...?
I'm not Mr Blane.
My name is Peter Thornton.
And you're not a diplomat.
You're a thief and a murderer.
What on earth...?
Mr Thornton came here to formally
accuse you of serious crimes, Amir.
I, on your behalf, have
demanded proof. And still do.
Well, go ahead, search him.
Start with the attaché case.
Mr Ambassador, this man is a thief.
That case is full of stolen diamonds.
Search him.
Enough! Your Excellency,
you cannot permit this.
I have diplomatic immunity.
Truly.
There can be no search.
Gentlemen, I have business
to attend to.
Will you excuse me, please?
This one's for Danny.
- Arrest him!
- I do like working with you people.
You can't prosecute me.
You can't even hold me.
Security!
Your Excellency!
What does this mean?
Your Excellency! Justice!
American justice!
I claim American justice!
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org